Title: Research
Date: 2017-07-01
Category: Research
Slug: research
Summary: Research
Status: draft


On this page I summarize the work we do our research project. 

#### Introduction

* The goal of the project is to develop novel methods for mining knowledge graphs. In particular the project focuses on link prediction methods in graphs. 

* Link prediction methods assign a score to pairs of nodes in a graph. The scores, ranked in decreasing order, represent a measure of “similarity” between two given nodes, and are traditionally computed from information embedded in the network's topology.  

* The application domain of the research project is knowledge discovery in life sciences. Specifically, the project is concerned with link prediction in a protein interaction.
  
#### Representation

* The protein interaction network is represented in the form of 
subject-predicate-object triples. 

* The goal is to discover new links that are not explicitly present 
in the KG.

* Training a link prediction model is a supervised machine learning pro-
cess, and therefore requires false triples in addition to the true facts
in the KG. 

* Negative facts are introduced by corruption of the true facts e.g. 
subjects or objects in the true triples are replaced by random entities.

#### Learning

* In order to learn and reason on this structured relational data, a method referred to as *knowledge graph embeddings* (KGE) is used:
  
* KGE methods transform triples into vectors in Euclidean space. 
* A vector representation of triples is obtained using *statistical relational learning* (SRL) techiques/models i.e. TransE, DistMult and ComplEx. 

* Once triples are transformed into vectors it is possible to apply algebraic manipulations on those vectors. 

* When training the model, the algorithm finds the "best" vectors by applying a scoring function. The goal os the scoring function is to end up with (trained) vectors that maximize the score of true triples and minimize the score of false triples. For example, a true statement is expected to satisfy the vectorial expression subject + relation type = object.

* The expectation is that the geometry of the embedding space would resemble the structure of the data by, for example, keeping the instances participating in the same relationships close in the Euclidean space. This in turn allows one
to apply standard machine learning techniques such as similarity-based link prediction.

#### Evaluation

* Evaluation is performed by measuring the quality of rankings generated by the respective scoring functions.
* [metrics e.g. MRR](https://torchbiggraph.readthedocs.io/en/latest/evaluation.html)


